I'm always pointing to the thing that I
think will show someone the the the
possibility of freedom and the truth
that I'm pointing to is the freedom not
the intellectual idea that I'm that's
coming out of my mouth I think that's
just a really important thing to
recognize not just in a coaching session
but in your own worldview like as you're
approaching life being able to hold two
opposing ideas at the same time and see
the truth in both of them there's a
tremendous amount of freedom in
that people really liked our recent
rapid coaching commentary episode on
stuckness yeah and uh that was a really
good experiment we were just seeing how
that would go and turns out a lot of
people really liked it and have asked
for more we've even had a couple people
send in their own rapid coachings with
you for for us to do commentary on so
there's already a little bit of a
backlog there yeah that's great so this
is a this is a person from one of our
courses who gave us permission to to use
this session publicly and we're really
grateful for that and he came in and he
started working with some kind of
jealousy that he had around his wife's
friend and over the course of the
session it was tied into the way that he
seeks control in both his relationship
and his company and he came to a really
beautiful place of really loving
people's no uh as as new information
that can help him make his company or
his relationship or his life even better
yeah I think the thing for me though
that's really important is if we're
going to do this is that we do it and
it's more based about the patterns that
we see because I think that's something
that can really inform the the danger
that we get into in this is that to
mimic other people's like um tricks or
techniques or something like that really
takes away the most important part of
coaching anybody which is understanding
yourself understanding people in general
and that comes from personal exploration
and and if you are ever interested in
coaching just to say that every one of
these conversations is a way for you to
explore yourself it's not a one-way
conversation ever uh so let's let's get
into it
yeah so um what made you just cross your
arms mulling over which question I want
to ask because they're both important to
me
okay what how does crossing your arms
help you mold that
over it creates tension in my body and
it actually doesn't help it's actually a
uh when I'm feeling
awkward and that is something I do ah
great so it's a form of kind of
protection of feeling awkward is what I
mean you say
yeah yeah absolutely let's just how
about let's just be [__]
awkward okay okay hold on a second so
there's a lot going on already in this
coaching session
so
the he's announced a couple things to me
immediately in this coaching section the
first one is that his you know his
typical way of like if if you have to
think about him in the fear triangle
right he's probably going to be more in
the bully section of the fear triangle
right there's like there like he doesn't
have any problem presenting with anger
he does that immediately with that kind
of cross armed defense of anger rather
than say like oh I'm stuck or or I'm
here to save somebody but the more
important thing that he announces
already is that he actually is quite
um he's quite introspective he knows how
to feel into his body he knows how to
say what's going on with him underneath
the surface level which means he's done
a like a considerable amount of work so
typically what you'll see is that when
unless somebody else is also in that
position of like oh I I understand what
it is to get angry and that that's a
form of vulnerability when somebody
interacts with somebody like this
they'll be likely to write them off
because of the like the propensity for
like the ER and the ensity for the
defensiveness and not be able to see
that whole secondary thing that's
happening which is he says he's actually
quite introspective quite thoughtful and
and if you see right here on his face he
like the idea oh we can be awkward
together like this like and he just
totally lights up it also tells you that
he knows and has experienced the freedom
behind
the behind the the defensiveness or the
anger so all of that I'd say is already
happening
that's already we know all of that if
we're going to walk into this session
with him wow yeah that's beautiful yeah
great let's
continue great what's your question
what's your
question
um so there's there's a stuck
Point
um yeah for for listeners that aren't
seeing this on YouTube Joe just started
going to kind of further cut through the
awkwardness uh and it seems to have
worked for everybody including myself
watching
this I've been somatically jealous of my
wife's best
friend and after a year of therapy and a
bunch of [__] anytime her name comes up
I can't get over it oh wow
cool how how how much of of this turns
into abuse of your wife emotional abuse
of your
wife oh it's it's not good yeah it's
pretty bad wow so that was a pretty
quick leap right there yeah yeah can you
say more on that yeah well he's already
presented that he in the fear triangle
his his habituated place is anger and so
usually if that's your place there's
going to be not there's two things that
are happening one is that you're
probably going to release the anger on
somebody in our Society generally will
call that abuse or emotional abuse and
everybody will kind of recognize that
including the person who's doing the
yelling whereas if it's passive
aggressive then often times the person
doesn't recognize that they're
doing the abuse and so they can't
actually see it so for me the question
was not just like I wanted to understand
his awareness and I wanted to understand
the patter How deep the pattern went and
by the way just all jealousy is abuse
jealousy of somebody is it's like I'm
going to have a big emotional reaction
to try to control you to do something
else it's the jealous person's way of
pushing love away as well as like say
like wanting it wanting the love and
affection but pushing it away at the
same time so all of that would say
there's abuse going on there that would
be the pattern behind it yeah yeah and
the jealousy can also another aspect of
it can be like a discomfort with someone
else's autonomy which can also point to
the the control that later on will come
up in the session absolutely and the
cool thing about if you really watch him
here he's he's like he's he's like yeah
it's not good like he he can admit it
and see it and so there's again he's
showing us that there is this
Consciousness and so the availability is
there like he you know often times you
talk about there's some forms of therapy
that you do it's like the the quote that
I heard once was like 10 years later you
can describe exactly what's wrong with
you but nothing has changed and then
there's this form of therapy where you
can't describe [__] but everything has
changed and there's a whole bunch of
cool reasons behind that I think the
best explanation I've ever heard is that
if you're in Theta which is where we get
programmed from 0 to 8 years old because
that's the brain wave that we're
dominantly in during that time
period um you know it feels more like a
dream you can't
quite understand everything that's going
on but things change whereas if you're
in more of a like typical brain state of
say uh alpha or beta then typically
what's happening is that you can
describe it all but you haven't
reprogrammed that subconscious that
happens and is programmed in that 0 to
eight years old so he but what he's
showing us is that he's very smart he's
showing us that he understands himself
at least on an intellectual level and he
is also showing himself that he's like
there's not a [__] ton of Shame there
there's shame but there's not like he's
not hiding it from us he's like yeah
boom this is what's up with me yeah
which shows a a lot of Bravery yeah yeah
and and on the emotional fluidity level
it's also like the a sign that the
emotion just hasn't moved you can have
the story you can understand what the
pattern is but some underlying emotion
hasn't moved and that I think would link
to the Theta as well like the emotion
moving being in the emotional state of
moving something that hasn't that's been
stagnant uh has has a similar effect be
Tred similarly that's right there's a
lot of emotional movement that can't be
understood by the brain for sure yeah
yeah yeah awesome let's continue pretty
bad I uh threw a giant tantrum of a
[__] psychological meltdown all
through last year making her choose
between her and
me yeah only to realize it's my own
issue obviously hence the question yeah
yeah yeah great Okay cool so you realize
the jealousy you realize there's an
abusive quality to
it what are you trying to control
for in the
jealousy yeah and right there that's the
the leap to control you're he's
recognizing the jealousy you helped him
immediately recognize the abuse he
already saw it there but you brought it
into the frame and now control right
which is every time we're in fear
triangle no matter what you're whether
you're in the in the victim or the
you're trying to control the situ it is
fear oh I'm scared so I'm trying to
control and that's what creates the
drama and that's what creates all the
pain so definitely that's that's why you
would that's that's what made me ask the
question all
right if you could make something
happen that would go oh I have that now
I don't really care about this
relationship with
her best friend what's the thing you're
trying to that laugh right there yeah
I'm curious what you see in that
laugh so what I saw was that I asked the
question the first way and it and it's
it's hitting him it's hitting him on a
subconscious level he hasn't like
fully gone through that thought process
so he's like 404ing a little bit he's
seen he's like more spaciousness is
occurring and then I asked it a
different way to make it more accessible
to him and and then he the the laugh
that I see right there is that he sees
something about himself and not only
does he see it but he can also see that
it's kind of funny that there's like a
there's something in it for him and and
so again not shame just like a lightness
which is really quite sweet yeah awesome
great uh a public
company no no with the relationship with
your wife yeah like I view this I view
this person to be a Blocker in my life
to the my hopes and
dreams okay so if this person was
like like 100% supportive of you and was
like let me help you with the company
then that would be fine or do you
actually have to create the
company oh no the company's created but
it's like she's like a rowing in the
other direction you know what I mean
it's like an anti- capitalist type
mindset that's influencing my [__]
life oh I get it okay okay okay okay got
it
cool
lovely um what stops you from loving the
[__] out of the anti- capitalist in you
your wife and this
woman because you just said capital and
money is the sun I think it's [__]
stupid if you do good [__] for the world
you should get paid for it and not hide
behind cowardice
okay hold on a second hold on cuz
something big is about to happen but I
want to talk about what just happened
which is so a lot of times like people
will be like oh you know Joe you
contradict yourself this is a perfect
example so if I recall correctly the
coaching that I did right before this
was all about this person thinking money
was bad and we were like seen through
that belief system and here he he's like
taking that thing and saying look Joe
you just said money is awesome money is
the
Sun so like you can see like there's
this part of him and I'm about to almost
contradict myself but the the important
and if I fully contradicted myself that
would be fine
because the way I I think about it is
like if I'm going to point to a
tree I'm going to point to it
differently depending on where you're
standing like it's you know my arm's
going to move and so where he's standing
pointing to the truth is going to be
different I'm going to it's going to
sound different it's going to look
different and his freedom isn't in seen
the goodness of money though there's
probably some freedom in that for him
there's still some judgment that he has
around it or he wouldn't buy into any of
this stuff but but the bigger freedom is
for him right now is to like hey what
are you defending like why what makes
you have to defend this so I'm just not
po I'm just pointing at the thing I'm
always pointing at the thing that I
think will show someone the the the
possibility of freedom and the truth
that I'm pointing to is the freedom not
the intellectual idea that I'm that's
coming out of my mouth I think that's
just a really important thing
for to to recognize not just in a
coaching session but in your own
worldview like as you're approaching
life you know being able to hold to
opposing ideas at the same time and see
the truth in both of them there's a
tremendous amount of freedom in that and
and so that's basically what we're doing
here and and I just say that because I
think anybody who's watching this like
see what life looks like when you're
actually able to hold opposing
viewpoints yeah and and in in a team you
know that's how conflict gets resolved
when when all viewpoints can be held in
the complexity of the overarching
perspective yeah then then there's
resolution tension remains but yeah the
conflict resolves yeah
awesome and not hide behind
cowardice yeah right and I noticed all
the defense in
that wait
what like that your heart had to harden
to be able to say that which means
there's something in you that believes
that that believes that capitalism is
wrong and capitalism is wrong I can give
you [__] 30 reasons why it's
wrong it does not create equal
opportunity is just one of them that
look was just like [__] you Joe yeah so
good he was like
no I came here you just said money is
the sun I came here to get my worldview
verified and and it is verified but it's
also like it it's but not at the
exclusion of closing your heart not at
the exclusion of being able to see the
truth in other World
Views
yeah and we continue it does not create
equal opportunity is just one of them
them okay I don't care about equal
results it just doesn't [__] create
equal opportunity go to where your
grandparents came from and you can
[__] see it right there so there
capitalism is wrong just
simply I want to believe that too so
yeah exactly so what if you don't defend
against
that well let me actually get deeper my
issue no no no no no just first what if
you don't defend against that right now
just allow and and like actually have an
open heart to the fact that capitalism
is not not a perfect
system money is not in any way a perfect
system you're thinking about it but I'm
asking you to open your heart to
it you have kids you have a
daughter I notice when when you said he
was thinking about it he was looking
around you know looking as though
looking for an answer and then when you
said like go to your heart open your
heart to it he like tensed his eyebrows
down and closed his eyes it kind of went
internal but there's there's some like
tension in it yeah what do you see in
that process happening right
now he's attempting
to he's attempting he's like yeah
there's just it's yeah and and and he'll
get there mhm and so it's like just it's
just loving patience at this point yeah
because that's what he needs for
himself right because anything that
anybody is doing to others you know
they're doing to themselves too right
which means that he has his own thoughts
that he doesn't allow if he doesn't
allow the thoughts externally because he
thinks he needs to be able to
compartmentalize to be able to get stuff
done to control so anything that I'm
seeing externally I know is happening
internally so if I start jumping in on
it right now then I'm just reifying the
part of him that thinks he needs to
manage himself instead of just bring
awareness to the problem
MH yeah
lovely I want you to open your heart I
want you to open your heart to the idea
that capitalism is not perfect the same
way you open your heart to your
daughter there you go there it was yeah
anything get
destroyed so what happened right there
for listeners is that tension on his
brow just
dropped and you could see him land in
his
body
yeah yeah like a hyper
vigilance
yeah yeah that's going to help you build
a better
company seeing capital for what it is
allows you to make a better
company having non-automated vigilance
will help you make a better
company you think control is going to
make a better company but that's not how
it
works here's a guess that I have are
you're the CEO of a
company how many recent CEO how many
people is um uh just a handful of us
okay so and have you managed a team
before like a size team yeah okay so
yeah my guess is I may be wrong but my
guess is that one of the things that um
has happened in your career is you think
that you have alignment from the team
and then people kind of do different
things and stray and you get very
frustrated cuz you're like wait I
thought all [__] agreed on this yeah
yeah so it's the same issue that you're
dealing with with your wife and best
friend or and her best
friend awesome I love that tying tying
both of those things together that
really helps tie together even for
listeners the way that our personal life
patterns and our work patterns are the
same thing yeah that's right yeah like
our
him managing people like that managing
the wife like that it's applying force
and the way that I think about it is
that like if you apply Force to
something it has to push
back rather than oh how do I harvest the
wisdom of the of the no which I think I
think I I'm about to go into so let's go
there wife and best friend or and her
best
friend is that you are rejecting the no
instead
of excited about the
no now he sees it you got it yeah every
know is a better solution to your
product every know is a refinement of a
process that can make you more efficient
and you're trying to stop them instead
of invite them every no provides Clarity
maybe just a little bit of clarity but
some
clarity yeah
yeah I completely actually [__] agree
with you great and the solution is the
same as the one that you just got to
experience what is it when you open your
heart to the
no you don't accept it as I'm bad it's a
bad solution it's a bad company you're
just like ah right there's truth to that
too
yeah I can really see him sitting with
this yeah and mulling it over there's
definitely there's intellect
online but it's in his body trying to
confirm deny look for evidence for
against but is his body is there too now
in a way that it wasn't earlier in the
session that's
right thank you so much Joe pleasure
perfect time my chair moves that's
[__] sign from the
universe rock and
awesome
yeah yeah well that was a cool one thank
you thank you to this Anonymous person
for
uh for letting us dissect this session
publicly just as a as a as a some just
something about the know generally and
the open the heart and the holding to
opposing viewpoints um yeah I know we we
mentioned it a little
bit having the opening your heart and
like opening the wisdom of the different
viewpoints is really really
profoundly important if you if you want
to create like a certain level of
freedom and this is includes like the
thing in the voice in your head right so
the voice in your head is talking to see
the truth and the nontruth of everything
it says to see the truth and the
nontruth of all these things it really
creates a very open perspective it can
create a lot of wisdom it it creates a
lot of spaciousness
internally um what i notic is that when
people start experimenting with that
then they'll be like oh I don't know
what to do like that's true and that's
true and that's true like they have this
the problem of isn't isn't is the way
I've heard it described it's like yeah
that's true and it's not true so what
the [__] do I do
um but there's only one thing that's
going to feel right when you do
it only navigating from the mind right
yeah and so let your mind do all the
processing look at the spreadsheets look
at the look at the you know the pros and
cons what you know do the intellectual
debate it's fantastic and then take a
moment and like really feel like what's
what feels like the right thing to do
and and give Credence to the frustration
or the fear or the whatever it's the
same thing it's like oh I'm going to
open my heart to the frustration and the
fear especially if you're running a
business that frustration is usually a
good sign that like oh like we're we're
not being determined enough or or we're
not pushing hard enough and and the fear
is probably a good sign like oh there's
something that we're not accounting for
or there's a risk that we're taking that
we need to risk adjust for or to be
prepared for or whatever like all of
those are really good signs and so it
becomes a lot less about like on the
intellectual plane it's like oh I can
see in the emotional plan oh I can feel
all of it I can see all of it but on the
like what to do is far more of a gut
response is like there's only one thing
there's only one
thing that's going to feel right and so
if you're playing with it if you go home
you play with this and you're start
opening yourself up to nose also just
consider like oh yeah and there's just
one thing that is your
truth yeah and it's going to be a
feeling yeah yeah and and so one thing
that's common in this in many many
sessions and kind of core to the work
that we do is that like I'm and the
question just here is like what what
makes it that opening your heart to the
opposing Viewpoint is so difficult for
people ah there's like so many one is
you usually have to feel something you
don't want to feel to is you know the
way that we create distinction is the
way that we Define our personality so to
be able to see the wisdom of the Biden
side and and the Trump side W man you're
going to have to let go of some of your
personality you're going to have to feel
certain things you're going to have to
feel the the fear and the loss and you
know those are two of the two of the
reasons why it's scary
um I think the other reason it's scary
is because like you don't get to be
right
anymore like you you can't you can't
believe the voice in your head you can't
believe your own thoughts you know like
I mean you've seen me do this where
people are like you like you don't know
what you're talking about I'm like yeah
correct yeah like yes and but you just
made this up that's right like we all
did and so so you don't get to like hang
on to any of that that you just get to
to
be and that's that's that that can be
very destabilizing for people for a
short period of time yeah and I I think
in our culture being right is tied with
being accepted being loved being so
that's if we're not right it's not just
that it feels uncomfortable and
groundless it's also that it our entire
body has Associated it with a loss of
love that's right so there's so to to
let ourselves not be right we have to
open ourselves up to feeling the love
that has been
lost yeah that's right feeling the love
that can't be lost which is even scarier
yeah and the love that has been lost
yeah beautifully
said Thank you cool awesome that was a
fun one thanks for doing that you Joe
yeah man appreciate it all right thank
you to Our Guest uh really appreciate
thank you putting yourself out there
that was a vulnerable one yeah and I
hope I hope this serves you to be able
to see it again in this format yeah yeah
all right talk to you soon bye